There is still a third difference—the manner in which each of these objects
may be imitated. For the medium being the same, and the objects the same, the
poet may imitate by narration—in which case he can either take another
personality as Homer does, or speak in his own person, unchanged—or he may
present all his characters as living and moving before us.

These, then, as we said at the beginning, are the three differences which
distinguish artistic imitation,—the medium, the objects, and the manner. So that
from one point of view, Sophocles is an imitator of the same kind as Homer—for
both imitate higher types of character; from another point of view, of the same
kind as Aristophanes—for both imitate persons acting and doing. Hence, some
say, the name of 'drama' is given to such poems, as representing action. For the
same reason the Dorians claim the invention both of Tragedy and Comedy. The
claim to Comedy is put forward by the Megarians,—not only by those of Greece
proper, who allege that it originated under their democracy, but also by the
Megarians of Sicily, for the poet Epicharmus, who is much earlier than Chionides
and Magnes, belonged to that country. Tragedy too is claimed by certain Dorians
of the Peloponnese. In each case they appeal to the evidence of language. The
outlying villages, they say, are by them called {kappa omega mu alpha iota}, by
the Athenians {delta eta mu iota}: and they assume that Comedians were so
named not from {kappa omega mu 'alpha zeta epsilon iota nu}, 'to revel,' but
because they wandered from village to village (kappa alpha tau alpha / kappa
omega mu alpha sigma), being excluded contemptuously from the city. They add
also that the Dorian word for 'doing' is {delta rho alpha nu}, and the Athenian,
{pi rho alpha tau tau epsilon iota nu}.

This may suffice as to the number and nature of the various modes of imitation.
Poetry in general seems to have sprung from two causes, each of them lying
deep in our nature. First, the instinct of imitation is implanted in man from
childhood, one difference between him and other animals being that he is the
most imitative of living creatures, and through imitation learns his earliest
lessons; and no less universal is the pleasure felt in things imitated. We have
evidence of this in the facts of experience. Objects which in themselves we view
with pain, we delight to contemplate when reproduced with minute fidelity: such
as the forms of the most ignoble animals and of dead bodies. The cause of this
again is, that to learn gives the liveliest pleasure, not only to philosophers but to
men in general; whose capacity, however, of learning is more limited. Thus the
reason why men enjoy seeing a likeness is, that in contemplating it they find
themselves learning or inferring, and saying perhaps, 'Ah, that is he.' For if you
happen not to have seen the original, the pleasure will be due not to the imitation
as such, but to the execution, the colouring, or some such other cause.

Imitation, then, is one instinct of our nature. Next, there is the instinct for
'harmony' and rhythm, metres being manifestly sections of rhythm. Persons,
therefore, starting with this natural gift developed by degrees their special
aptitudes, till their rude improvisations gave birth to Poetry.
Poetry now diverged in two directions, according to the individual character of
the writers. The graver spirits imitated noble actions, and the actions of good
men. The more trivial sort imitated the actions of meaner persons, at first
composing satires, as the former did hymns to the gods and the praises of famous
men. A poem of the satirical kind cannot indeed be put down to any author earlier
than Homer; though many such writers probably there were. But from Homer
onward, instances can be cited,—his own Margites, for example, and other
similar compositions. The appropriate metre was also here introduced; hence the
measure is still called the iambic or lampooning measure, being that in which
people lampooned one another. Thus the older poets were distinguished as writers
of heroic or of lampooning verse. As, in the serious style, Homer is pre-eminent among poets, for he alone combined dramatic form with excellence of imitation, so he too first laid down the main lines of Comedy, by dramatising the ludicrous instead of writing
personal satire. His Margites bears the same relation to Comedy that the Iliad and
Odyssey do to Tragedy. But when Tragedy and Comedy came to light, the two
classes of poets still followed their natural bent: the lampooners became writers
of Comedy, and the Epic poets were succeeded by Tragedians, since the drama
was a larger and higher form of art. Whether Tragedy has as yet perfected its proper types or not; and whether it is to be judged in itself, or in relation also to the audience,—this raises another question. Be that as it may, Tragedy—as also Comedy—was at first mere
improvisation. The one originated with the authors of the Dithyramb, the other with those of the phallic songs, which are still in use in many of our cities. Tragedy advanced by slow degrees; each new element that showed itself was in turn developed. Having passed through many changes, it found its natural form,
and there it stopped.