Guy de Maupassant’s The Necklace effectively symbolizes the misleading nature of appearance, its inflated importance in society, and the inevitable ramifications of being ‘all show without any substance’. In the story, there are two ways through which Mathilde exaggerates her appearance: her clothing and the diamond necklace. In a bid to look as if she is apart of a higher social strata and appear more wealthy than she actually is, Mathilde wears a tailored dress well outside of her budget. Moreover, she pairs the dress with a diamond necklace which she borrows from Mme. Forestier. The dress coupled with the ‘valuable’ necklace, apparently, allays her fears about not having the ‘appropriate’ wear to the high-class function, and appearing of a low-class. Even today, society is so mislead by appearance and inexorably embellishes its importance. One example of this is seen in the Theranos scandal that ravaged Silicon Valley in 2014. Elizabeth Holmes, its founder, sold Theranos as the company that would single-handedly revolutionize blood testing. First individuals in her circle, then prominent investors from around the United States, and last the larger society, bought into the project. What everyone had bought into, however, was the brand and the appearance that Holmes had painted for Theranos, without ever checking if there was any real ‘substance’ or revolutionary technology. Made of paste jewels yet appearing exquisite and expensive, much like the whole Theranos brand, the necklace itself represents the very surface-level nature of the emphasis on appearance in society. While Mathilde is perceived to be equally exquisite and beautiful at the party, she is also equal in the artificiality of the necklace. Significantly, for both Mathilde and Theranos, the inflated appearance is what inevitably leads to both’s downfall. For Theranos, once those involved realised that the company was selling empty promises and really had no revolutionary product the company disintegrated and, subsequently, became insolvent. As for Mathilde, after she loses Mme. Forestier’s necklace, her and Mr.Loisel (her husband) are brought to a low social class by the obligation of paying off the replacement necklace. Collectively, through the story told by Maupassant and the Theranos, we come to realise just how vulnerable we are to buying into the overstated importance of appearances, rarely giving ourselves the opportunity to think about the ‘substance’ that lies deeper- within ourselves or with others. While it doesn’t always lead to disastrous consequences, it is important to note that we simply shouldn’t ‘judge a book by its cover’. 
