I am looking at a book that is far less ornate than the others. It is a red manuscript of scientific observations. Sitting amongst texts created for a wider audience, this manuscript is unique. Hand-written, in a barely legible style, its origins were only for personal use. The small 19 by 12-centimeter paper manuscript is stitched together with a single thread. Bound in red paper wrapping, the cover is thin and cracked. This pure red is interrupted by a crookedly-cut piece of thin brown paper, highlighting the title, “Petrifactions.” The word “Petrifactions” itself is carefully marked in fountain ink. The letters are written in an elaborate style of the blackboard bold font, sharp, and deliberate. The cover and binding can barely hold together the fifty-seven pages that are enclosed. While not all the pieces of paper are the same size and three sheets are loosely placed between the contents, they are marked with the same rushed but baroque style script writing. 
As I flip through the series of handwritten entries, it is clear to me that this book is a valued homemade possession.  Broken into different sections, labeled “introduction,” “Reliquiae Deluviaan”, “Of Flints”, “The Malvern Hills”, “List of Rain Plants in the Neighbourhood”, and “The Vale of Gloucester”, the book tells a story of scientific development through use of direct quotes from well-known scientists and personal analysis. Each page is marked with a topic. Key words are underlined, sections are left blank for added details, and final sentences are crammed crookedly in the corner of the pages. 
The book is not only text. Intricate drawings divide the text. With a variety of different mediums, such as ink and wash, graphite, and charcoal, each drawing is different. The drawings are often labeled with a short description. Each taking up a separate page, the drawings illustrate the biological topics questioned. A drawing titled “Nautilus” captures a watercolor representation of an aquatic snail-like creature. With deep hues of grays and yellow, the painting attempts to capture a form of life. A map of the UK, which concludes the manuscript, etched with pen and ink, depicts coal distribution and areas of observation.
	 At the time it was written, the book had little value. As a diary from the 1840s, written by a woman, about science and her love for the field, it would have been considered useless. The manuscript was meant for her personal enjoyment and anyone who could decipher the initials H.C.R, which was written three times sporadically at the bottom of the text. Tucked in the pages are items the author wanted to preserve and remember, a cut out from a book of a butterfly, a bookmark of mindless doodles, and information she hoped to one day understand. However, sitting between the Bible and Quran in the Special Collections Room, the diary finds its significance. 
	In the special collections room, staring at this red manuscript, I am looking through someone else’s eye at an interpretation of the theory of biology. 
